There we go again.
Okay, yes.
Now we can start.
So, Karta has been given the name by Capacita Vimalassi.
As you know, he was the father of Crete Neodiputra, and he has made an honorary introduction.
The book is actually...
dedicated by me to the Greek of the diaspora, and it contains the contribution of Greek scholars, editors, printers, and publishers in Italy and in the West.
It covers from the end of the 14th century the beginning of the relationship between the West and the East, the Byzantines and the Westerns, especially the Italians,
And it goes up to the end of the 1532, around the death of Zianos Laskaris.
There is an extensive index, thematically.
You can find whatever you're searching.
There are at least 1,000... I must have been inspired when I read it.
...biographical notes about all the important people and printers and scholars of
that have been worked in printing or in editing or in learning Greek language and Greek literature.
So, more or less, I think it covers whatever.
This will also get in the bibliography of my new book.
I think it's already, as my publisher told me, at Harvard University.
I saw a new edition there.
You can search it right from here, by the way.
I'll send you a phone number.
You can call the Harvard catalog.
There is also a leaflet and a map with the symbol marks of the Greek
let's say, editorial activity from the 15th century to the end of the 18th century.
This is all made by hand.
Absolutely magnificent.
May I ask, because I read this for the article, but what is the cost of this book?
The cost of this book is 500 marks.
Okay, that's German marks.
German marks, yes.
And how does a person buy it?
Do they contact the publisher?
They contact the publisher, yes.
I'll put this in the piece, the information is in there.
Yes, I will give you a small leaflet of him, because this is the leaflet of the announcement of the Greek edition, which has been published in 1989.
It took me ten years to make the translation.
Did you do the translation, yes sir?
No, my English is not so good.
What has been said, Timothy Cullen, who was a classical scholar from Oxford, has done extremely good work.
The announcement of the edition is that the Greek edition was put it all in hand.
Was there a limitation on the...?
Yes.
How many copies?
It's out of print now.
It's out of circulation.
Is there a limitation on this one?
The first edition is 700 copies.
It'll sell.
I'll be able to help you on this, I think, with some contacts.
I'll do my very best.
I know some people who buy it.
I know one book sell it, a lot of ten of them.
Maybe I'm wrong, but we'll see.
They're not on for me.
I don't have a good occasion.
So, I'd say, I guess a lot of what I'm going to ask you is probably answered in that book, but I'm so interested, and I noticed on the way in, you know, the portrait of Cardinal Viserio down below.
I have to tell you a funny story.
When I was up at Mount Athos,
at the Vardapperi Library, and the monk was asking me what I'm doing, and I'm explaining, and I said, and I was in Venice, because I forget, I'm talking to an orthodox monk, you know, and I said, and I'm going to write about Cardinal Besserio, and you look at this, the traitor, the traitor.
I said, oh my God, that's right, I forgot.
But it is interesting that some Greeks considered him.
Continuously feeling that way.
But, of course, you feel, and I feel, his significance as what?
The Greeks, yes.
In the letters and in the, let's say, keeping the conscience of the Greeks, that period, especially within, after the fall of Constantinople, under the 15th century, he had created a special academy in Rome where everybody was
writing and copying manuscripts and selling them all over and keeping let's say a Greek flame always there and all kinds of refugees were going there and finding food and being able to be asked for many problems that they had going all around
And, of course, he rescued the Greek books, and he took them out with him, which is of extraordinary.
They had the two... First of all, his library was the most important private library of his time, no doubt about it, in Greek and Latin books.
Then he had sent at least two or three book hunters all over the monasteries,
and knowing exactly what they were looking for.
They were trying to recreate a library with all the rest of the important Greek and Byzantine literature.
There were not just hundreds of books.
They wanted special to see and to have in the West special works that didn't exist in Italy.
at all, or existed in libraries where nobody could go and find them.
Do you think it's safe to say that there are Greek works that would be lost forever if it weren't for him?
Oh yes, absolutely.
And something else, sometimes we're talking if Greek works would be lost, sometimes a special copy is so important
towards other copies that existed, because it's the most ancient one, and it's more closer to the original one, which is very, very important.
Like Homerus A, for instance, is one just the same one.
Like the Venetus A, yes.
And many, many others.
Dr. Zoysi called the Homerus A. It is the Venetus.
Tell me about yourself.
Are you a collector?
You seem to be a total bookman.
I mean, you write books, you collect them.
Can you tell me a little bit about yourself?
I know you're going to send me a CV, but... Yes.
One of my special interests in the field of books is the editorial activity of the Greeks from the end of the 15th century up to 1821.
I mean, all the important and less important, everything, all the centers where Greek books have been published for the Greeks.
That means, of course, that I have to know also the general history of printing, European-wise.
And so, but it doesn't cover just the field of way of printing or printer marks and things like that.
It covers all the activity, the scholars, the writers, the distribution of the books, all this activity has to do with the books, the readers, everything.
And then I have been... This is as a scholar now you're interested.
Yes, yes.
And then I'm sorry to interrupt you.
Yes, and then it's, as I have done, two historical libraries.
I have reorganized and designed them.
One is the Patmos Library.
which is very important, which I have to visit.
I've been to five months, but not to the library.
And one in the Ecumenical Patriarchal in Hanari.
Now, you have redesigned them?
Yes.
They actually, the old one, I mean, there were the manuscripts I kept, which is very... They never opened it.
So, from that point of view, I've started searching and...
I did an inquiry about the history of the library in general, and my last book was a publication with the history of the library from the ancient world, from 3000 BC up to the Renaissance, and I had presented as well 40 important libraries.
Is that published only in Greek?
Only in Greek.
The English translation is now under preparation.
uh ready by the end of this year really and uh this year who's publishing it and now now i come to a very important subject that i would like to find an american publisher or to to co-publisher if you want for distribution and it's a very
That's an important book.
I will show you a copy.
Give me the title.
Tell me who's publishing it in English over here.
Me.
You are?
Yes.
Under your imprint?
Stichos imprint?
Not necessarily, no.
As I'm the writer, I'm not really... You don't look like it.
Yes.
I just put the date and the place and that's all.
But I'm doing all the supervision, the editorial activity, the pagination and all that.
It's a very special book you'll see.
And the title, what is the title?
The title is Libraries from the Ancient World to the Renaissance, and 14 important... Fourteen.
Fourteen, yes, important humanistic
and monastic libraries.
3,600.
That's all the title now, right?
Mm-hmm.
Title and subtitle.
Where does the subtitle begin?
The libraries from the... No, I mean, it's title and subtitle, the title altogether.
Wow.
And what are some of the libraries, the Fourteen?
The Fourteen, now, is the Burkina Library in Oxford.
Yes.
It's the work from the Edge of August in Wolfgang Battle.
Yeah, that's the only one I haven't been to.
Yeah.
It's the Humanistic Library in Celestat.
Uh-huh.
It's the Strachof Monastery in Prague.
It's the Matthias Corvinus in Budapest.
It doesn't exist, but as a collection.
That's a very important test.
It's the beginning of the National Library of France during its period while it came in the National Library, I mean from the beginning up to Francis I. It's the same attitude towards the Austrian Library from the beginning up to the Maximilian II.
It's the Patmos Library.
It's the library in Panhard, in Kostaknopoul.
Okay.
And, uh, where are we?
One, two, three, four, five, six, seven, eight, nine.
Five more.
Five more?
That's fine.
I just kept... I've got one.
The library in St.
Gallen.
I've been there, yes.
St.
Gallen.
The Cesena Library.
Cesena, then there.
I'll bring you a coffee just to see you.
They were the end sheets of your book and libraries, and this was a plan for a national library in France, which was never realized.
But I'd like to see this more than the one they've got now.
Yeah, yeah.
Have you been to the new one?
Yes.
I have, too, yes.
Even in France, I think you would like to see that before France.
It's Mika.
What are you going to do?
This is wonderful.
I assume it's illustrated, right?
Oh, yeah.
Magnificence.
Let's see.
Yeah, you know who would be a good publisher for this?
Is Abrams or Yale.
Yale, we might be in contact.
Yale is excellent.
I know people there.
If you know them and want to call them, I'll let you know with whom I'm dealing with, Mr. Nichol.
I know a woman there named, they wanted to publish my book.
I know the book that you have downstairs.
I wanted to go with a commercial publisher.
because I wanted to sell it.
Of course.
But Yale does.
Magnificent.
I don't know if you've seen any of their art books.
Beautiful.
Really nice.
They would be great for this.
You're talking with someone at Yale?
Already, yes.
I'm just going to write them.
Let me, and who's the person you're talking to?
Mr. Nichol.
Mr. Nichol?
Nichol, yes.
N-I-C-H-O-L?
Yes.
So I'll tell Sarah that you're already talking with Mr. Nickel, and I will just give this.
They know me.
I write about their books every year.
Right now I'm doing their books for Christmas.
I can't promise anything, but I can promise it's my best shot, as we say.
And I think it would be good for Yale.
It's Abrams, you've heard of Abrams, but they've recently, but we don't have to record this.
The evil, the West, Byzantine, and the Renaissance.
And you can get everything that... Did you get all of the illustrations yourself?
Yes, you did all this.
And we made this for the pagination with notes.
Wow.
And you're having this... This is already fully translated now as we speak.
Yes.
And you're publishing this.
This will be available this fall.
I would like to purchase a copy.
Yes, I think it's available, okay?
As soon as it's available, in fact, I would like to use it.
It's beautiful.
I made it from scratch.
You had your own photographers, that's Chezaina?
Yes, my own photographers, yes.
We went all around all these libraries with this special, unique photograph of it.
And there are all kinds of ingredients that exist, which are in my personal collection.
people and aspects of the library's house, Colin Oversarion, and... Do you write about Colin Oversarion in here too?
Yes.
There is a huge article.
It's kind of the San Marcos library.
This is beautiful.
This is exquisite.
Congratulations.
Thank you.
What accounts for your interest, your passion?
Obviously, do you have an explanation for your passion for books and for the library?
You asked me the question.
Metathetically, if you want to search with the idea.
Well, it's like my second nature.
I don't know.
I mean, are you trained as a scholar?
No, not at all.
What's your background?
Interior designer, interior architect.
And so this is your profession, in other words.
Yes.
So professionally you're an interior architect, which obviously supports these other activities.
So are you a collector as well?
I mean, I can see this on the wall.
Yes, I have a huge collection of the books printed for the Greeks of the diaspora, something like 4,000 editions.
Wow.
From the Renaissance period up to the beginning of 1900.
And what occasioned your interest in the diaspora?
Well, you know, there were special books printed for the Greeks.
For many reasons, liturgical.
These are all liturgical, as you see, all Mimea, Gospels, histories, any kind of book was printed for the Greeks.
From the Renaissance period, where we had a completely different interest, as we had
grammars and dictionaries and humanistic subjects.
Then we turn to the interests of the Greeks of the diaspora, which were mainly the liturgical book and some histories.
And then with the Enlightenment period, we have a new, let's say, publishing activity towards the Enlightenment ideas
around democracy, around the re-evaluation of the classics, and around the new literature, poetry, and all that.
So all that, with the people that are involved, covers my interests, plus the libraries.
So when you talk about designing the libraries, you are actually designing them as a...
as a professional professional yes yes and so and what's your focus what you what are you trying to do as a designer when you're designing an ancient library let me also say this is very fortuitous i i've already interviewed for this new book you definitely have a place in this new book by the way uh there's a fellow in boston for a major major architectural firm that does all the modern libraries for all the major colleges and universities well these are my plans for the library from the
Humanity library.
Yes.
This was the original plan in two levels then was the actual plan.
Then this is the Patmos library.
Patmos didn't have a library.
It had a beautiful collection but in a room like that with different cupboards where the manuscripts were kept.
And it was all.
And so when was this done?
It was finished in 1989.
1989.
So when you approach something like this... Well, I have to take under consideration the general architectural structure and tradition, the location, the collection, the special, let's say... Well, the problem with the Byzantine libraries is it's more, let's say, complicated because there didn't exist any libraries up to now, monastic libraries, to see how they were organized.
The collections in the monastery were in the same...
Let's say, philosophy.
A room without... It wasn't a completely medieval, let's say, fold.
Well, let me give you an example.
At Vardopedi, for instance.
Yes.
Those books were scattered all over the monastery and the skettis.
So finally, they brought them together and they put them in a tower.
Four floors.
Over at Iveron, they took the old bakery.
and they put in shelves.
So clearly... I have a special article about the abolition of the library in the Byzantine world, from the tradition, the Roman tradition that came in Byzantine with the first emperors.
And it's very, very interesting to see how many aspects about the policy of the books were alive
in different levels through the business time period.
Is this a challenge for you?
Is this something that you are hired to do, or is this something that you go out and offer your services?
I'm curious.
How does one get to design ancient libraries, modern facilities for ancient collections, you always say?
How does that happen?
Easily.
beautiful to describe it.
Yes, but these people come to you because they know that... Yes, yes.
I mean, Vatopendi also asked me to make... to reorganize... Are you working in the museum up there?
No.
There is a museum.
Yes, I know.
They asked me to do the museum, but I didn't have time.
My works take a lot of time and a lot of thinking, and I do not want to make things just for, you know,
What is your normal work?
What kind of work normally do you do?
How do you make your living?
India design.
But can you give me some examples of the kinds of things you do?
I have some special, let's say, clients, and I'm doing for them special things.
Like homes, businesses?
Like homes, churches.
Offices.
Offices, libraries, private.
But things that take me, private, let's say, company, strategical buildings for them.
Primarily in Greece or internationally?
Primarily in Greece, yes.
And how long have you been doing this?
Quite a long time.
And this will be?
Over 70, I guess.
And this will be in the CV that you send me?
Yes, I will.
Good.
So we won't bother with that.
So at what point did your passion for books become inflamed?
Well, in the beginning, I had the sort of... I just want to make sure.
We always check how we're doing.
It's a collection of things, plus books, around the general interest, let's say, about Greece and Greek civilization.
And then, I must say, I've seen one of the first books printed by the Greeks, by a special man called Zacharias Kalieris, who worked in the 15th century.
Can I take a few pictures every time?
No, no, check it.
I've seen also some of the printer marks of old and very valuable Greek editions.
And I started having an interest in this huge publication of the Greeks that covers these four centuries.
has to do with something like 7,000 editions.
And at the same time, from the Patmos library they came and asked me to build the library.
So this special interest, collecting books, printed by the Greeks, for the Greeks, plus organizing a so important library as the library of Osius and Patmos is.
which in fact is the oldest library in the world that we know that has to do... I will give you a copy.
So you can photograph it as much as you want.
I was saying that the Patmos Library is the oldest library in the world, that we have a direct
connection of the personal library of the man in the first century, and with the history, the continuous history, in the same location, up to date.
It's very important.
And how did you, did you know this, or was it something you learned in your, in your travel?
In searching, yes, of course.
But here came the opportunity to design this library knowing that I have this, let's say, knowing that I know about books and possibly I would be interested in making a library.
And then my interest started from there.
So I have these parallel lives, the book and the library, which are things very, very much in common.
So that's that.
But have you always had a lot of books, even from being a small child?
No, not really.
Not really.
Would you describe yourself as a reader?
Not a classical reader.
I'm always involved in reading things that are the support for creation.
for a recreation of the book, or of this book that's... These books up here, are these books that you're familiar with?
Yes.
All these are editions from Venice and Vienna, a Greek book for the Greeks.
I think, is there a... I'm sure I will get this out of this book, but is the book culture of Greece
a great book culture.
How would you... Today?
Yes, today.
Well... You smile, by the way.
The state recorder doesn't pick up smiles.
Yes.
It's more important to see the history of the Greeks during the centuries.
Greeks have been writing, publishing, and editing from the 6th century BC up to now continuously.
They have, let's say, inaugurated libraries in the Western world.
They have created the market of the book, and the circulation of the book, and with Aristotle, also the conscience of the importance of a private library.
So, during the black period of the Greeks under the Osman Empire, they never stopped printing and editing.
I'm sorry.
Yes.
One of the things I was told up at Vagopedi, for instance, is that they said that during the Ottoman period they were denied the press.
Yes, but that was a very fortunate thing for the Greeks, because they denied the press because it was against the Korani.
Even the Turks didn't get these books until 1765.
But on the other hand, the left completely liberated the circulation of the
in the commercial aspect of the books I mean books were circulating in all the places of the Ottoman Empire freely and that also was a very fruitful thing for the Greeks because they had only one or two centers of printing centers and it was very easy to have a whole market
towards all these colonies like Alexandria, most of the troops.
Because otherwise painting presses in places where nobody was able to cover the necessary number of books that you have to circulate so the company can be alive.
That made the various, let's say, Greek printing presses to be fruitful for four centuries at least.
So, of course, we didn't forbidden the printing in the areas that were under the Ottoman control, except of two places at the beginning of the 17th century,
which had a very special political system.
It was Iasi and Bucharest, the Parisitias duchesses, the Hegemonias.
There Greeks, Phanariotes, were sort of princes, and they had the right, according to a special treaty between the Austrians and the Turks,
to paint books as well.
Now you can see some of them, just to give an idea.
These are books.
These are the coat of arms.
Look at that.
What's the day, what's the year on these?
Are these incunables?
No, no.
They're 17th century.
These look like original bindings, though.
Yes, they are.
They all are.
Where do you find these?
Look at the annotations.
Find these through dealers or...?
Well, all over the world, but not very... Very often how the books like that come from the market.
Are there pictures here?
Yes, just where we are.
It's so wonderful in Kansas.
I mean, there's an impact where there's ice land.
We'll take some more.
You don't mind my working like this.
No, no, no, no.
Okay.
Your first name is?
Nicholas.
I keep in my glasses because I've lost my glasses too hard.
I'm
I'm sorry, we're jumping around here.
Under the Turks, the Greeks could save their culture, under 500 years of Turkish domination.
Do you think books had anything to do with that?
A lot.
Basically.
Because the actual liturgical books were not only for the needs of the Church.
Many of them as the Psalterian and other
elementary books, was served as elementary grammars and tools for the Greeks to learn Greek.
But through the books also, and through the ritual of the Orthodox Church, they kept alive continuously the Greek language.
And of course, you have to consider that except many places, especially Greece and the south of Greece,
where they really were very poor in many, many, many terms.
The Greeks of the diaspora and some of them were very, very important people in different capitals of the Mediterranean world in general.
From the end of the 17th century, we have them in St.
Petersburg and in Moscow.
We have them in Alexandria through
since the 4th century.
We have Smyrna.
We have them in Odisov, which was the main port of the Russians.
From the end of the 17th century, we have them in two more or less free countries, which is the Moldovlasia, and Moldovlasia.
We have them in Vienna, from the beginning of the 18th century.
We have them in Paris,
in Marseille, and of course, in main capital cities in Italy, especially in Venice, from the end of the 15th century up to now, and for several periods in Rome and in Florence.
And then from the 17th century, end of 17th century, in Livorno, a great
And Trieste, two great colonies with Greeks, counting some 60 or 100,000 people, more or less.
So all these places where the Greeks were free, they were in communication with one another through the books.
They never stopped printing.
The first books, of course, you read here, and the Greek were
painted for special humanistic reasons, but not after a decade, from when the first book, Greek text, was published, which is 1469, 1470, something.
Then the Greek books for the Greeks started being printed in Italy, and they never stopped.
You've written nine, ten books.
Yes, more or less.
And where do you find the time to do this?
And do you consider yourself a scholar?
Well, would you consider me a scholar?
Yes, I would, actually.
I would.
Harvard University seems to think a great deal about your books.
They have them all.
I mean, I could call them on the telephone right now on the computer.
and punch up your name, and they will give nine titles, which they consider important enough to have on call there for their students.
How do you decide what to write about?
Well, one thing brings another.
Of course, I have in preparation three volumes of that size, one for each century.
16th, 17th, 18th century, which we covered the whole, let's say, people that were involved in publication and books, which means that all the spiritual activity were centered in publication houses and printing houses.
Then I'm thinking of making a very easy and more
let's say, a book about the history of the libraries, not that kind of volume, not a paperback exactly, but something more affordable, yes, in four volumes or three volumes, just to give an idea how the evolution and the contribution of the Greeks
to the idea of the library.
When you write about the library, do you write about it as a physical structure?
Do you write about it in terms of its content?
No, I'm writing content, architectural-wise, and as a thesmosis, as an actual aspect of the civilization.
And that word again, thesmosis?
Thesmos.
Thesmosis.
Thesmosis, which is something that is like a law.
That would make a great chapter.
Yes.
I'll have my friend Nick Gage translate that for me.
How does that translate, would you say?
Thesmos, it's something that civilization gives a very great importance of Thesmos to Hamo.
The marriage is more or less, the way of marrying, it's like the ethy.
the way of living and behaving.
So it was something like a conscience that every man, every ruler in his own city should have a library.
It's a task.
It's a master.
It was a measure of your success, like we talk about Chezzena, which you have.
Yes.
That's a perfect example.
That's the oldest library in the world, I guess,
It's even older than the Lorenziana in its original setting.
Setting.
The only library that has all its tools there.
All its fittings.
All its fittings there.
All its fittings, its tools, the books are still clean.
Perfect, yes.
The only library.
And, you know, when I sat down there, as I assure you did, the windows are perfect.
You sit down, the light comes in.
Yes, yes, absolutely.
And it's designed for reading.
Do you take this into account when you're redesigning a library?
Are you designing it with readers in mind?
Yes.
Absolutely.
Because most of these places that you've done, I think, are more repositories than they are.
Readings as well.
Readings.
So do you think about, as the ancients did, where we're going to put the windows for the light?
Absolutely.
Tell me, for instance, what you had to do, what the special problems were at Patmos.
In Patmos, it was under the earth, the library.
So even so, I had...
and find a small hole just to bring light in there.
But not for reading, but just to give the geographical position of the library.
Of course, light is not the best print of the books.
It's the worst.
And also for the ancient libraries, it was the worst also for humidity problems and other kinds of...
that field, rain coming in with the wind and things like that.
That's why in the Ashton libraries were all around with, let's say, had archaic all around for that special reason, to protect the windows from the wind and from the
humidity and from the rain coming in.
What kind of special pleasure do you take in creating a library?
Ah, great pleasure.
Great.
And again, when you, and name, I know we have it on the tape, but could you just tick off the libraries that you've done for me?
List of the, tell me the libraries that you have designed for which facility.
Is this Patmos?
Patmos, and the, and the one in the Fanard.
The Fanard is?
Fanar is in Constantinople, the oldest library of the Christian world.
Its origin goes back to Constantin the Great, when he had inaugurated Constantinople as his capital of the Eastern Empire.
and from that period we know that he had ordered in Cesaria where there was a special scriptorium there 50 Bibles to cover the necessities of the first church that were in construction in Constantinople and also for the center for the Patriarch Hill which was the head of the
the churches, and from that period we know that there was an actual policy of a library in the Patriarch.
Are the original books still there?
The oldest one is from the 9th century.
So they do have some of the old ones.
Yes.
How does their collection compare to some of the other collections?
Well, they do have 500 manuscripts.
It's not bad, and at least 20,000 books and important libraries of medical figures that are donated after the death.
The library is there as Athenagoras of 40 years, and are the great leaders of the orthodoxy.
And that tells you just how great something like Pao Apos is, when Vardopedi has 2,050, and Ediron has another 2,000, and Lava has more than 4,000.
It's amazing what it is.
Have you been to Athos?
Yes, several times.
Do you have a comment on the importance of Athos in the preservation of Greek culture?
Well, great.
I mean, the great.
The great.
So the policy about the books were many times, let's say, doubtless.
as an important cosmic library, because for several years there were many entities towards the ownership by the monks of material things.
So sometimes even an extremely valuable book for them didn't... Had no meaning.
Had no meaning, because it had to do like being an anchor
to the world, though they were anxious to send the spirit towards God.
So there were many things towards this philosophy, or the philosophy of Physicastes and Palamas and other movements.
So the policy around books and libraries is very contradictory for many periods with Mount Athos.
But they saved them.
They saved them a lot.
For the most part, our culture is there.
Yes, yes.
Now, this has nothing to do with the books, but it has everything to do with the story of Britain for Smithsonian, which is about Athos.
What does Athos mean to Greek men in general and Greek men today?
Is going to Athos a lot like going to Mecca?
I mean, every young man I touch with, you ask, is it?
I don't think it has so much to do with the original thing.
as something completely virgin, as a way of behaving, living, and... Probably I'm not the right man to ask that kind of thing.
No, I think you are, because you're a civilian.
I want to know what, because there were so many Greeks up there I couldn't talk with, and I wanted to know why they were there.
Some of them looked like they'd gone up for four days of...
of getting away, and walking, and exercise, and prayer.
I lost ten pounds, and I'd like to lose potentially more.
But it seems to me to be a very therapeutic kind of a place.
Yes, as well.
As well.
And I'm going to start this story with Fr.
Benny, because they're all young.
Exactly.
The abbot is 44 years old.
They're putting in a museum.
They're going to do an international exhibition.
They do these tours in English, and they're putting in a new building for guests.
They have toilets that you can sit in, which is what they have to shower.
You know, that's public relations.
That's not all prayer, and this is a mind.
Yes, they're opening a little bit.
They're opening.
And it is a new brotherhood, which...
And I think the Smithsonian wants me to write about this monastic republic.
Is it going into the Middle Ages?
Yes and no, is my answer.
You know, they drive around in four-wheel drives, and they smile a lot.
They built the same thing, yes.
But you go to Lava, they're all old over there.
Very interesting.
Anyway, your comment was very good.
So you think it's kind of like a therapeutic...
experience, not necessarily a spiritual one.
Yes, I think so.
Would that be a fair characterization?
I think so, yes.
And can I quote you on that?
Yes, of course.
And you've been, as you say, many times.
Yes.
And how do you feel when you go there, personally?
Well, I always go very hunted, more or less, because I have a special interest just to see something.
In business like me.
Business class, yes.
I was working.
Book-wise, yes.
As interesting as an experience as it was for me, I was working every minute.
It's very, in a sense, that I was trying to put things together.
It's very important also to see this monumental architecture in a field where there is nothing else but the church.
And the environment, which is hopefully very, very well preserved and very authentic, I mean, in many ways.
So it's something that you, it's extremely uncommon.
To see something in situ like that.
Yes, absolutely.
I had that feeling at Yvonne, particularly, I had time just to walk.
So I walked up the road towards GES, and going up the hill, going up the hill,
You can see Athos over here, the monastery down here, the ocean, and the elements of the architecture just totally absorbed in the heart of the... Your question was very, let's say, on the spot.
If you take out all the telephones and if you take out some cars and circulation and any kind of machinery, you're living in the medieval period.
There's nothing changed.
And then you really do, as a designer in particular, you must really have an appreciation for the original design and what was going on here.
It's not like we have a little Byzantine church downtown that's surrounded by steps.
So what do we see there, you know?
I'm sorry to go off on the tangent right there.
And tell me, by the way, when it's getting late.
I don't know what your plans are.
But we're covering a lot of ground.
I am covering the areas that I want, so.
Let me see.
I have no questions.
We're doing very good, by the way.
We took book culture, and we talked about that.
We talked about the Syrian libraries.
You're going to give me your background, right?
Yes.
I think we're doing good.
What would you like me to leave here with today?
What would you like me to know about you?
What's important for me to know about you?
If we've met.
I agree.
I love it.
You told me about the different things that you work on, homes, libraries.
What is there special about doing it?
Oh, you told me two of the libraries that you've done.
Can you give me some of the others?
I think that's very important.
You said the one in Constantinople, the Patmos, the Fanad you did, the Patmos?
Yes.
I've made a very private library.
Mm-hmm.
I made several private libraries.
But one of them I'll send you a photograph.
I don't have any.
It's for a Greek who has a lot to do with...
with the states as well, Mr. Condominas.
With a K?
With a K. Dimitrios Condominas.
Dimitrios?
Condominas.
K-O-N?
K-O-N-D-O-M-E-N-A-S.
Condominas.
Yes.
And he lives here in Athens?
Yes, he's the president of the Inter-American Insurance Company.
Inter-American.
Inter-American Insurance.
And is this for a personal collection, or is it for a library?
Here's a personal collection.
Here's a very beautiful historical, I would say, a private house.
And I have designed, I've designed all the cars, but I've designed it in my library.
I will send you some photographs.
And here's a very important collection of travelers in Greece.
Something like 1,000 volumes, more or less.
Through history, of course.
Through history, yes, and some very important classical editions.
And I worked a lot in organizing the library and designing the library in the house.
It's a small one, but it's very, very particular, because I have designed some Stucco, let's say, scenes with all the sciences and arts
And they are all, in that context, completely neoclassical, Byzantine things.
And what was the challenge for you in this particular library?
What was the greatest challenge?
Well, as always, just to create an atmosphere.
I like the hands, that's what I'm saying.
I like it when you're gesturing like that.
To create an atmosphere which is suitable for the right person.
This is also, I think, a challenge.
I mean, the right thing for the right person.
Some of the other institutional libraries besides Patmos?
I have designed for a huge school a library which is
a double library, a conventional library with books, and an electronic library.
And that was a challenge also to combine these two different ways of learning.
How do you feel about this, the electronic?
Well, I'm not very keen about it, but I must say that it helps a lot in many fields.
It cannot cover the... It helps a lot in the...
in communicating things and in being in communication with other people.
And I think that it will help also in special fields and special knowledge.
I think that it will never overcome the conventional library.
It will never make the conventional, the book, a museum piece.
Never, I think.
I have a chapter on books of the future in this new book that I'm writing, and technology and all the other stuff, and I totally agree.
Certain things, research things.
Journals, for instance.
They're all electronic even now.
Journals are electronic, and they deserve to be.
Because a journal is published, and it's very expensive.
Only very few people are going to read it.
and uh it's it's outdated we have to consider one basic thing also the book started from its initial from the first line it started as an element of knowledge it helped the spread of knowledge but immediately it became a piece of art it has been immediately been
been worked by monster painters micrographs and it still is i've got to get the 575 that's an important quote do you use your books in your work do they inspire you to do certain elements could you give me an example that doesn't have to be a title but how does a book help you come up with a solution to a problem
to a situation.
Well, I might, you know, the connection of the way of thinking, the connections and the way of taking an idea might come from a completely different... I'm thinking about a door, and I might see an initial painted on a Kalorindjian manuscript and see some dots where whips can become huge nails or
pieces of different wood in a special door I'm thinking.
Constantly saying, I can use that.
That is something that I can use.
Using that.
And that.
And that's what we call parallel thinking.
Parallel thinking.
And that's why you're an artist.
I don't know what else.
I think we've covered a great deal, and I don't want to take up too much of your time.
It's a great pleasure meeting you.
And this is going to be very heavy to carry, but it's worth it.
Yes.
And I will absolutely make sure that the... How do you find time to do these books when you're... to do the books that you write?
I mean, do you spend more time working on the books than you do on your design?
For some periods, yes.
And you do all of the research yourself?
Where do you do most... Absolutely.
And where do you do most... Where do you do your research?
I have an extremely important...
library with reference books and periodicals something like six thousand your personal library so the material for your books basically comes from your own but of course i have to go to several special libraries or archaeological schools and things like that to find material but basic but i have a very basic library
That's here?
A lot of things, tools, all tools about the history of books as well.
Great.
Now is this your home as well as your... No, no, it's absolutely strictly your office.
And this is called Te Stipos.
Yes, yes.
And the S.P.
is what?
Is that your... My father.
Spiritism.
So, do you mind my asking how old you are?
You don't have to tell me if you don't want to.
Fifty-five.
My exact age.
I'm fifty-five.
Nineteen forty-three.
What's your birth take?
Twenty-four months.
Twenty-five May.
Okay.
And where were you educated?
In Paris.
And that was in design?
In design, interior design.
So this is something that you always planned to do?
Yes, yes.
My father is an architect in that.
I just deviated from architecture to interior design.
I went to the School of Fine Arts, and then specialized in interior design.
And is your father still here in Athens as well?
Yes.
Is he in this building or elsewhere?
No.
Yeah.
That's great.
I'm going to leave you here.
Actually, the...
The surrounding of the actual door going into the St.
Galileo.
Where they have the statement, medicine for the soul.
I saw this.
And they wouldn't let me take a picture of it.
So now I'll take it.
You have it in the book.
Okay.
How did you get it?
You must have gotten permission for that.
Well, that was a good... I liked the way you were standing right there with your arm.
That was nice.
Among those books.
I'll just take a couple.
Like this.
I must have shot about the whole world.
Which means I've got to take this.